[Link](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/node-express-walkthrough) to Glitch.com where I went through and completed the FreeCodeCamp walkthrough of using Node and Express

<b>May 19, 2020</b>
6:30pm - 8:30pm
Created a new npm project from the terminal using 'npm init'. Then installed packages 'Express' and 'Nodemon' via the terminal using 'npm i express nodemon'. Wihtin my package.json I created 'start' (-> runs regular node) and 'devStart' (-> runs the file with Nodemon) scripts. Then I created my main server file; app.js, ensured it was assigned to the key "main" within my package.json. <br>
Within app.js I created my variable for express and assigned it the require function w/ express string value; require('express'). Then declared my app variable and assigned the express function to that. Then using the 'listen' method I designated the port number I used and used a callback function within it to log to the console a simple string declaring that the application was listening on said port. Above this I created my first GET request for the root route which sends json data with a message key and 'Welcome to my Home Page' as the value. Next I created another GET request for another route named /about which sneds raw text to the webpage that says 'Learn more about me!'. Then to be able to work more with routes and json data, I imported an array of movie objects from a previous project and assigned to a global variable named 'database', then created another GET request to another route named /movies and used the .json method to send the movie data from the 'database'.
Then to go further into using request parameters within a GET request, I created another GET request so that I can manually type in a number after the last movies request parameter to get the data for a specific movie. I learned that to have manually inputted request parameters you need to have the following syntax ':id' so localhost:port#/movies/:id. But to be able to actually use the number that is being stored in the 'id' request parameter object as a key value pair, I have to access the request data from the GET request and then access the 'params' section of the request and then use dot notation to access the 'id' key and its value. After store this value in a variable I then use it to display a specific movie from the database variable.
After this I then created another GET request but this time I played around with the 'query' route and learned that to access the query parameters that are typed into the url that you have to access the request data then using dot notation to access query which is a object of data. Then use dot notation again to access a specific key/value.

<b>May 20, 2020</b>
5:45pm - 6:30pm
Commentted out all my previous code and started new code for a REST API while following along with a youtube tutorial.<br>
In this tutorial I was walked through the steps of starting a server using 'Express' (Nodemon included as well). First we created an 'express' variable that is assigned the require module for express and then we created an 'app' variable which was assigned the express function to create an express application.
Futher on we did a simply GET request to the root route and sent a string but first it did not work because we didn't have a listen function called for the port number, so after creating that and assigning a port number to the Dotenv file I created I then used the proccess property to extract the PORT number and assinged it to a variable named 'port'.
Next we went into understanding simple POST requests and how to test them using POSTMAN.